Intro

In the agile presentation last year from myself, Julie and Charley, I mentioned the backlog artifact and hoped that the idea would pick up steam, but it didn't.
Despite the fact that we are fairly succesful with our agile process, especially compared to most other engineering organizations I've worked, it's surprising that we've gotten by for so long without the glue that holds it all together, a real product backlog.
Earlier this year, Val and I started a product backlog for the Mystery Men team, particularly for the Campaign Manager product.
After a few weeks of tweaking and grooming our initial creation we ended up a document and a process that greatly improved how we work every day.
Since then, with Katharine's help, our backlog has grown.
I want to re-introduce the product backlog artifact to you, make you realize it's power and it's benefits across the entire organization and show each Scrum team how to get one started


The Product Backlog

    Applies to Scrum methodology, but useful elsewhere.
    Arguably, the single most important artifact in the Scrum methodology

What makes it work
    Single copy and single source of truth
    Available to EVERYONE, ANYTIME (Place high value on collaboration and transparency)
    Living, breathing document that is groomed constantly
    It outlines and ranks the organizations goals - gives a reasonable expectation of what can be delivered and when
    All players can add tasks

Canoe's current system: The Scrum board and the Management Report
    Scrum Board falls short because it is physically too big to use as a backlog. It is also physically difficult to find and arrange tasks.
    Available only at planning and pre-planning
    Very little visibility beyond the next couple sprints
        Little opportunity to provide feedback
    Stories are not pointed


The Players
    Product Owner: Owns and maintains the Backlog, the person most responsible for understanding the needs of the business. Gathers input, takes feedback and is lobbied by many people, is ultimately teh one that makes the call and what gets built.
    Developers: Refer to the Backlog as their bible
    QA: Refer to the Backlog as their bible
    Management: Complete understanding of what the engineering group is working on, what has been delivered, and a fair expectation of when future tasks will be completed.

Understanding Velocity

Example Diagram

    Types of entires:
        Epics
            MMFs
                Stories (Small enough to complete in a 2-week interation - INVEST: independent, negotiable, valuable, estimable, small, testable)
        Tech Tasks (a.k.a. Chores)
        Defects (a.k.a. Bugs)
        Spikes (a.k.a. Prototypes)
    The lower in the backlog, the more volatility to expect. The higher in the backlog, the less volatility to expect.
    It is expected that items will shift in rank, will be redefined and repointed, but frequent changes to the top of the backlog is a sign of a problem.
    Every item is ranked or ordered -- not prioritized

What Canoe Does

Definition
    Simple: A list of things to do
    Advanced: An ordered list of eveyrthing that might be needed in the product and is the single source of requirements for any changes to be made to the product.
    Captures requests for modifying the product
        adding, updating, deprecating, removing features
        fixing bugs

Who it Benefits

How to Use It

    Too many ideas, not enough resources: Everything is valid (but doesn't need to be fleshed out thoroughly at first), everything is ranked, anything can be moved up in rank.

How to Start One For Your Team

    Start with the current sprint
    Add only the most well-understood stories
    Continually add and update
        Pre-planning

Benefits to Canoe to Using a Real Backlog

Variations on the Typical Backlog

    Trello
    Trello -> Typical Format -> Management Report
    Write access to all - Google Docsbac


Advanced Topics

    Preplanning techniques
        Ad hoc discussions
        Planning poker
        Formal preplanning (What Canoe does today)
    Multiple teams, multiple backlogs -- strongly discouraged
    Multiple teams, single backlog
    Cost Estimate (Story Points) vs. Business Values Estimate. The relationship of the two determines the ROI, which is how items are ranked.
        Additionally, add points for risk and necessity to further determine an item's rank.

References

    http://agilebench.com/blog/the-product-backlog-for-agile-teams
    http://scrummethodology.com/the-scrum-backlog/
